# The Twelve Factor App

https://12factor.net/

## I. Codebase
One codebase tracked in revision control, many deploys.

> You and your team own a source code repository, and you control what is in that source code repository. The more you control, the better off you are.
> "Deploys" here means that your code will be (hopefully) running in multiple places at the same time, (Environments), and updated frequently.

II. Dependencies
Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies

> "Don't own the libs" - dependencies like NPM packages, nuget packages (.net) should not reside in your repo. 

III. Config
Store config in the environment

> Another way of saying this is that config is what changes per environment. "The database we use in DEV is different than prod" - that's config.
> Avoid having *code* that changes per environment as much as possible. 

IV. Backing services
Treat backing services as attached resources

> Databases, other services, etc. should be seen kind of like the dependencies - they should be explicit.
> 
V. Build, release, run
Strictly separate build and run stages
VI. Processes
Execute the app as one or more stateless processes
VII. Port binding
Export services via port binding
VIII. Concurrency
Scale out via the process model
IX. Disposability
Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown
X. Dev/prod parity
Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible

> This is the aspiration (ahem) of Aspire - the closer we can replicate the production environment in every other environment, the less problems we seem to have. Additionally, if you *cannot* do this, it is a sign of coupling issues that should be addressed. 

XI. Logs
Treat logs as event streams
XII. Admin processes
Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes